#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "libertine" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Summary of: Mastering the game of Go with deep neural networks and tree
 search
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Esteban Rodríguez Betancourt
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Go is a game with a huge legal move space: 
\begin_inset Formula $250^{150}$
\end_inset

.
 With such number of legal moves common approaches like Minimax, Monte Carlo
 Tree Search or throwing more hardware to the problem isn't enough.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
DeepMind team was able to make a breakthrough in Go
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Silver2016"

\end_inset

 by combining the following techniques:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Monte Carlo Tree Search
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for evaluating board positions
 and selecting moves
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Using supervised learning for bootstraping 'value networks' and 'policy
 networks'
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Using reinforcement learning to improve on both previous networks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Make the system play against itself to improve further the learned behaviors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Distributed training
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Monte Carlo Tree Search
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Monte Carlo Tree Search is a process where the moves tree is explored in
 the following order:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A move is selected
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The branch is expanded
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Random playout is performed from this point
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The game result is used to update information in the selected branch
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The process is repeated until the time allocated is spent, so it selects
 the move with the best 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

win/plays
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 ratio.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Deep Convolutional Neural Network
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Go board provides perfect information to any viewer.
 As such, DeepMind considers it to be a good candidate to apply a Deep Convoluti
onal Neural Network to evaluate the board.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A Convolutional Neural Network just sees a window of the input at a time,
 so it is able to generalize faster and learn features from the input set.
 That is why it is useful for image classification tasks, as it tolerates
 better image translations and rotations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the case of Go, a CNN may be able to identify situations, regardless
 of position of the board where they happens.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Supervised and Reinforcement Learning
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
They used Supervised Learning to train the networks, based on previous games
 databases.
 This makes a good start and provides good results, but the network tends
 to just memorizes games.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To force the network to learn new situations they used Reinforcement Learning,
 and made the system play against itself.
 Reinforcement Learning gives rewards to the player that wins a game, so
 it allows to do unsupervised learning.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When training a neural network one of the most difficult steps is getting
 good training sets, so being able to use unsupervised training (via reinforceme
nt learning) on a problem is achieving a big milestone in its own right.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Hardware and Distributed Training
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
AlphaGo was implemented in a distributed version and a single-node version.
 the final version uses 40 search threads, 48 CPUs and 8 GPUs, while the
 distributed version uses 40 search threads, 1202 CPUs and 176 GPUs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The computations are splited between search threads and GPUs.
 As MCTS requires simulating plays that task is handled by the CPUs.
 The computation of the policy and value neural networks was handled by
 GPUs, as they are better suit for performing lots of matrices calculations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Regarding the hardware there are two highlights: AlphaGo performed less
 computations than DeepBlue agains Kasparov, by using a smarter strategy
 for prunning the moves tree.
 Also the distributed AlphaGo was able to beat the single-node version most
 of the times.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "biblio"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
